the giant American from the world of
sumo wrestling is shaking things up in
Japan not just with his weight but by
his singing Hawaiian born former Grand
Champion of sumo Akebono has been
shocking Japanese TV audiences by
performing musical routines singing and
dancing may seem fairly natural pastimes
to us but they are taboo behavior for
sumo Grand Champions who are revered
almost as deities in this the most
conservative of Japanese sports
they just waited up and down the ball
the way I feel no matter what you do you
always gonna have people who like what
you do and do not like what you do for
me whatever I do since I left some more
I try to think about where I come from
first my roots the reason why I can do
why I do now is because of some and if
it's not too ridiculous I'm game to
doing anything
first foreign wrestler to reach the
pinnacle of sumo grand champion before
retiring in 2001 now he no longer needs
to ask the austere sumo Association for
permission to perform believes that his
TV debut will help increase the sports
popularity overseas many of Japan
believe that any kind of undignified
performance by a sumo champion serves
only to cheapen the sport it's a bit sad
because he was your cousin a grand
champion the fact that he has fallen
this far
he went into k1 fighting he went into
pro wrestling um none of them were
really a big success you know I mean she
was your cousin a grand champion that's
the top of the sumo world and you know
everybody looks up at you as God so it's
really a fall from that high position
during his sumo career Akebono was
famous for his severe facial expression
but now he's a man transformed through
fact the smiling sumo might be seen as a
breath of fresh air in a sport that is
often considered too severe for its own
good